examples/rest-endpoints/README.md, before:

# Example REST Endpoints

Assuming you've deployed the Inference Gateway, you can interact with the language models through the REST endpoints. Below are some examples of how to interact with the Inference Gateway using curl commands.

### GET Endpoints

| Description            | Curl Command                                                    |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| List all models        | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/llms`                        |
| List Ollama models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/ollama/v1/models`      |
| List Groq models       | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/groq/openai/v1/models` |
| List OpenAI models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/openai/v1/models`      |
| List Google models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/google/v1beta/models`  |
| List Cloudflare models | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/cloudflare/ai/models`  |

### POST Endpoints

| Domain                            | Curl Command                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ollama.local                      | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/ollama/generate -d '{"model": "phi3:3.8b", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}'`                |
| api.groq.com                      | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/groq/generate -d '{"model": "llama-3.3-70b-versatile", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}'`    |
| generativelanguage.googleapis.com | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/google/generate -d '{"model": "gemini-1.5-flash", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue keep it short and concise."}'`          |
| api.openai.com                    | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/openai/generate -d '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue keep it short and concise."}'`               |
| api.cloudflare.com                | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/cloudflare/generate -d '{"model": "llama-3.1-8b-instruct", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue keep it short and concise."}'` |

Commit message:

refactor: Update request and response structures to use unified messages content structure (#19)
* refactor: Update request and response structures to use unified message format across providers

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

* refactor: Add providers package to Dockerfile

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

* docs: Update README with new request and response examples

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

* docs: Update POST endpoint examples to use unified message format

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

* refactor: Update docs

Also improve development debugging when gzip encoding is sent.

Also add system prompt to ollama, seems to be an option that could be provided not in the messages array but as a separate option.

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

* docs: Update README with corrected request and response message formats

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

examples/rest-endpoints/README.md, after:

# Example REST Endpoints

Assuming you've deployed the Inference Gateway, you can interact with the language models through the REST endpoints. Below are some examples of how to interact with the Inference Gateway using curl commands.

### GET Endpoints

| Description            | Curl Command                                                    |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| List all models        | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/llms`                        |
| List Ollama models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/ollama/v1/models`      |
| List Groq models       | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/groq/openai/v1/models` |
| List OpenAI models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/openai/v1/models`      |
| List Google models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/google/v1beta/models`  |
| List Cloudflare models | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/cloudflare/ai/models`  |
| List Cohere models     | `curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/proxy/cohere/v1/models`      |

### POST Endpoints

| Domain                            | Curl Command                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ollama.local                      | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/ollama/generate -d '{"model":"phi3:3.8b","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'`                 |
| api.groq.com                      | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/groq/generate -d '{"model":"llama-3.3-70b-versatile","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'`     |
| generativelanguage.googleapis.com | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/google/generate -d '{"model":"gemini-1.5-flash","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'`          |
| api.openai.com                    | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/openai/generate -d '{"model":"gpt-4o-mini","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'`               |
| api.cloudflare.com                | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/cloudflare/generate -d '{"model":"llama-3.1-8b-instruct","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'` |
| api.cohere.com                    | `curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/cohere/generate -d '{"model":"command-r","messages":[{"role":"system","content":"You are a helpful assistant."},{"role":"user","content":"Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}]}'`                 |
