Configurations.md, before:

## Configurations

### General settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| ENVIRONMENT | `production` | The environment |
| ENABLE_TELEMETRY | `false` | Enable telemetry |
| ENABLE_AUTH | `false` | Enable authentication |


### Model Context Protocol (MCP)
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| MCP_ENABLE | `false` | Enable MCP |
| MCP_EXPOSE | `false` | Expose MCP tools endpoint |
| MCP_SERVERS | `""` | List of MCP servers |
| MCP_CLIENT_TIMEOUT | `5s` | MCP client HTTP timeout |
| MCP_DIAL_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client dial timeout |
| MCP_TLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client TLS handshake timeout |
| MCP_RESPONSE_HEADER_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client response header timeout |
| MCP_EXPECT_CONTINUE_TIMEOUT | `1s` | MCP client expect continue timeout |
| MCP_REQUEST_TIMEOUT | `5s` | MCP client request timeout for initialize and tool calls |


### OpenID Connect
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| OIDC_ISSUER_URL | `http://keycloak:8080/realms/inference-gateway-realm` | OIDC issuer URL |
| OIDC_CLIENT_ID | `inference-gateway-client` | OIDC client ID |
| OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET | `""` | OIDC client secret |


### Server settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| SERVER_HOST | `0.0.0.0` | Server host |
| SERVER_PORT | `8080` | Server port |
| SERVER_READ_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Read timeout |
| SERVER_WRITE_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Write timeout |
| SERVER_IDLE_TIMEOUT | `120s` | Idle timeout |
| SERVER_TLS_CERT_PATH | `""` | TLS certificate path |
| SERVER_TLS_KEY_PATH | `""` | TLS key path |


### Client settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| CLIENT_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Client timeout |
| CLIENT_MAX_IDLE_CONNS | `20` | Maximum idle connections |
| CLIENT_MAX_IDLE_CONNS_PER_HOST | `20` | Maximum idle connections per host |
| CLIENT_IDLE_CONN_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Idle connection timeout |
| CLIENT_TLS_MIN_VERSION | `TLS12` | Minimum TLS version |
| CLIENT_DISABLE_COMPRESSION | `true` | Disable compression for faster streaming |
| CLIENT_RESPONSE_HEADER_TIMEOUT | `10s` | Response header timeout |
| CLIENT_EXPECT_CONTINUE_TIMEOUT | `1s` | Expect continue timeout |


### Providers
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| ANTHROPIC_API_URL | `https://api.anthropic.com/v1` | Anthropic API URL |
| ANTHROPIC_API_KEY | `""` | Anthropic API Key |
| CLOUDFLARE_API_URL | `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/ai` | Cloudflare API URL |
| CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY | `""` | Cloudflare API Key |
| COHERE_API_URL | `https://api.cohere.ai` | Cohere API URL |
| COHERE_API_KEY | `""` | Cohere API Key |
| GROQ_API_URL | `https://api.groq.com/openai/v1` | Groq API URL |
| GROQ_API_KEY | `""` | Groq API Key |
| OLLAMA_API_URL | `http://ollama:8080/v1` | Ollama API URL |
| OLLAMA_API_KEY | `""` | Ollama API Key |
| OPENAI_API_URL | `https://api.openai.com/v1` | OpenAI API URL |
| OPENAI_API_KEY | `""` | OpenAI API Key |
| DEEPSEEK_API_URL | `https://api.deepseek.com` | DeepSeek API URL |
| DEEPSEEK_API_KEY | `""` | DeepSeek API Key |

Commit message:

feat: Add ALLOWED_MODELS configuration for model filtering (#108)
Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

Configurations.md, after:

## Configurations

### General settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| ENVIRONMENT | `production` | The environment |
| ENABLE_TELEMETRY | `false` | Enable telemetry |
| ENABLE_AUTH | `false` | Enable authentication |
| ALLOWED_MODELS | `""` | Comma-separated list of models to allow. If empty, all models will be available |


### Model Context Protocol (MCP)
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| MCP_ENABLE | `false` | Enable MCP |
| MCP_EXPOSE | `false` | Expose MCP tools endpoint |
| MCP_SERVERS | `""` | List of MCP servers |
| MCP_CLIENT_TIMEOUT | `5s` | MCP client HTTP timeout |
| MCP_DIAL_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client dial timeout |
| MCP_TLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client TLS handshake timeout |
| MCP_RESPONSE_HEADER_TIMEOUT | `3s` | MCP client response header timeout |
| MCP_EXPECT_CONTINUE_TIMEOUT | `1s` | MCP client expect continue timeout |
| MCP_REQUEST_TIMEOUT | `5s` | MCP client request timeout for initialize and tool calls |


### OpenID Connect
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| OIDC_ISSUER_URL | `http://keycloak:8080/realms/inference-gateway-realm` | OIDC issuer URL |
| OIDC_CLIENT_ID | `inference-gateway-client` | OIDC client ID |
| OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET | `""` | OIDC client secret |


### Server settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| SERVER_HOST | `0.0.0.0` | Server host |
| SERVER_PORT | `8080` | Server port |
| SERVER_READ_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Read timeout |
| SERVER_WRITE_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Write timeout |
| SERVER_IDLE_TIMEOUT | `120s` | Idle timeout |
| SERVER_TLS_CERT_PATH | `""` | TLS certificate path |
| SERVER_TLS_KEY_PATH | `""` | TLS key path |


### Client settings
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| CLIENT_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Client timeout |
| CLIENT_MAX_IDLE_CONNS | `20` | Maximum idle connections |
| CLIENT_MAX_IDLE_CONNS_PER_HOST | `20` | Maximum idle connections per host |
| CLIENT_IDLE_CONN_TIMEOUT | `30s` | Idle connection timeout |
| CLIENT_TLS_MIN_VERSION | `TLS12` | Minimum TLS version |
| CLIENT_DISABLE_COMPRESSION | `true` | Disable compression for faster streaming |
| CLIENT_RESPONSE_HEADER_TIMEOUT | `10s` | Response header timeout |
| CLIENT_EXPECT_CONTINUE_TIMEOUT | `1s` | Expect continue timeout |


### Providers
| Environment Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|
| ANTHROPIC_API_URL | `https://api.anthropic.com/v1` | Anthropic API URL |
| ANTHROPIC_API_KEY | `""` | Anthropic API Key |
| CLOUDFLARE_API_URL | `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/ai` | Cloudflare API URL |
| CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY | `""` | Cloudflare API Key |
| COHERE_API_URL | `https://api.cohere.ai` | Cohere API URL |
| COHERE_API_KEY | `""` | Cohere API Key |
| GROQ_API_URL | `https://api.groq.com/openai/v1` | Groq API URL |
| GROQ_API_KEY | `""` | Groq API Key |
| OLLAMA_API_URL | `http://ollama:8080/v1` | Ollama API URL |
| OLLAMA_API_KEY | `""` | Ollama API Key |
| OPENAI_API_URL | `https://api.openai.com/v1` | OpenAI API URL |
| OPENAI_API_KEY | `""` | OpenAI API Key |
| DEEPSEEK_API_URL | `https://api.deepseek.com` | DeepSeek API URL |
| DEEPSEEK_API_KEY | `""` | DeepSeek API Key |
