examples/kubernetes/hybrid/README.md, before:

# Hybrid Kubernetes Example

In this example, we will deploy both Ollama and the Inference Gateway onto a local Kubernetes cluster. The Inference Gateway will facilitate sending requests to Ollama as well as to various cloud provider's Large Language Models (LLMs).

1. Create the local cluster:

```bash
task cluster-create
```

2. Deploy Ollama onto Kubernetes:

```bash
task deploy-ollama
```

3. Wait for the Ollama deployment to be completely rolled out and ready(could take a while due to 2GB download, roughly 3min on a standard internet bandwidth):

```bash
kubectl -n ollama logs -f deployment/ollama
```

Inspect the logs and see if the pull of the model is completed: `pull success`.

If you see in the logs `msg="downloading..."` it means the model is still being downloaded.

4. Deploy the Inference Gateway onto Kubernetes:

```bash
task deploy-inference-gateway
```

5. Proxy the Inference Gateway, to access it locally:

```bash
task proxy
```

6. Check the available Ollama local LLMs:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/llms | jq '.[] | select(.provider == "ollama") | .models'
```

7. Send a request to the Inference Gateway:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/ollama/generate -d '{"model": "phi3:3.8b", "prompt": "Why is the sky blue? keep it short and concise."}'
```

8. Add a cloud provider's LLM to the Inference Gateway, by setting the API Key in the Kubernetes [secret](inference-gateway/secret.yaml):

```bash
...
  GROQ_API_KEY=<GROQ_API_KEY>
...
```

9. Deploy the new secret:

```bash
kubectl apply -f inference-gateway/secret.yaml
```

10. Restart the Inference Gateway so the changes take effect:

```bash
kubectl -n inference-gateway rollout restart deployment/inference-gateway
```

11. Proxy the Inference Gateway, to access it locally:

```bash
task proxy
```

12. Send a similar request to the Inference Gateway, but this time using the cloud provider's LLM:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/groq/generate -d '{"model": "llama-3.3-70b-versatile", "prompt": "Explain the importance of fast language models. Keep it short and concise."}' | jq .
```

And that's how you can interact with both local and cloud provider's Large Language Models using the Inference Gateway. All from a similar interface.

\*\* You can refer to the [Taskfile.yaml](./Taskfile.yaml) at any point for detailed information about the tasks used in this example.

\*\* If the response is cut off mid-stream while the token is still being transmitted, it may be caused by the inference gateway's read timeout. Consider increasing or adjusting the timeout value and redeploying the gateway.

Commit message:

docs: Update example request in README for clarity and add rollout status command
Signed-off-by: Eden Reich <eden.reich@gmail.com>

examples/kubernetes/hybrid/README.md, after:

# Hybrid Kubernetes Example

In this example, we will deploy both Ollama and the Inference Gateway onto a local Kubernetes cluster. The Inference Gateway will facilitate sending requests to Ollama as well as to various cloud provider's Large Language Models (LLMs).

1. Create the local cluster:

```bash
task cluster-create
```

2. Deploy Ollama onto Kubernetes:

```bash
task deploy-ollama
```

3. Wait for the Ollama deployment to be completely rolled out and ready(could take a while due to 2GB download, roughly 3min on a standard internet bandwidth):

```bash
kubectl -n ollama logs -f deployment/ollama
```

Inspect the logs and see if the pull of the model is completed: `pull success`.

If you see in the logs `msg="downloading..."` it means the model is still being downloaded.

4. Deploy the Inference Gateway onto Kubernetes:

```bash
task deploy-inference-gateway
```

5. Proxy the Inference Gateway, to access it locally:

```bash
task proxy
```

6. Check the available Ollama local LLMs:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/llms | jq '.[] | select(.provider == "ollama") | .models'
```

7. Send a request to the Inference Gateway:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/ollama/generate -d '{"model": "phi3:3.8b", "prompt": "Explain the importance of fast language models. Keep it short and concise."}' | jq .
```

8. Add a cloud provider's LLM to the Inference Gateway, by setting the API Key in the Kubernetes [secret](inference-gateway/secret.yaml):

```bash
...
  GROQ_API_KEY=<GROQ_API_KEY>
...
```

9. Deploy the new secret:

```bash
kubectl apply -f inference-gateway/secret.yaml
```

10. Restart the Inference Gateway so the changes take effect:

```bash
kubectl -n inference-gateway rollout restart deployment/inference-gateway
kubectl -n inference-gateway rollout status deployment/inference-gateway
```

11. Proxy the Inference Gateway, to access it locally:

```bash
task proxy
```

12. Send a similar request to the Inference Gateway, but this time using the cloud provider's LLM:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/llms/groq/generate -d '{"model": "llama-3.3-70b-versatile", "prompt": "Explain the importance of fast language models. Keep it short and concise."}' | jq .
```

And that's how you can interact with both local and cloud provider's Large Language Models using the Inference Gateway. All from a similar interface.

\*\* You can refer to the [Taskfile.yaml](./Taskfile.yaml) at any point for detailed information about the tasks used in this example.

\*\* If the response is cut off mid-stream while the token is still being transmitted, it may be caused by the inference gateway's read timeout. Consider increasing or adjusting the timeout value and redeploying the gateway.
